OSDOCS 3536: Docs for setting a required SCC (#63723)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/security-context-constraints-requiring.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * authentication/managing-security-context-constraints.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="security-context-constraints-requiring_{context}"]
= Configuring a workload to require a specific SCC

You can configure a workload to require a certain security context constraint (SCC). This is useful in scenarios where you want to pin to a specific SCC to the workload or if you want to prevent your required SCC from being preempted by another SCC in the cluster.

To require a specific SCC, set the `openshift.io/required-scc` annotation on your workload. You can set this annotation on any resource that can set a pod manifest template, such as a deployment or daemon set.

> The SCC must already exist in the cluster and must be applicable to the workload, otherwise pod admission will fail. An SCC is considered applicable to the workload if the user creating the pod or the pod's service account has `use` permissions for the SCC in the pod's namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SCC must already exist in the cluster and must be applicable to the workload, otherwise pod admission fails. An SCC is considered applicable to the workload if the user creating the pod or the pod's service account has `use` permissions for the SCC in the pod's namespace.
```

![Screenshot from 2023-08-28 15-05-12](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/57954076/1c1ed4e5-9a51-42e3-a25d-f20e8edf0547)

Reviewer 2: s/must already exist/ must exist 

_must already exist_ seems redundant; _must exist_ is far more popular in the docs: 91 to 2, per Atom.

[WARNING]
====

> Do not change the `openshift.io/required-scc` annotation in the live pod's manifest; the pod admission will fail. To change the required SCC, update the annotation in the underlying pod template, which causes the pod to be deleted and re-created.

Author: Updated!

====

.Prerequisites

> * The SCC must already exist in the cluster.

Reviewer: Could an additional resources section be created and a link to the `Creating security context constraints` module be added to this section? I assume this module is where a user could add an SCC to a cluster?

Author: Potentially, but since they are both in the same assembly, I don't think it's necessary

Reviewer 2: s/must already exist/ must exist

.Procedure

. Create a YAML file for the deployment and set a required SCC by setting the `openshift.io/required-scc` annotation:
+

> .Example `deployment.yaml`

Author: I have the heading here because it gives the name that I used for the YAML file, which is shown in the next step's command to apply the file.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
spec:
# ...
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        openshift.io/required-scc: "my-scc" <1>
# ...
----
<1> Specify the name of the SCC to require.

> . Create the resource by running the following command:

Reviewer: Would a `deployment resource` be more specific?

Reviewer 2: I would say no, as the annotation can be used with _any resource that can set a pod manifest template_. Leaving it generic might be better?

Author: Yes it can be more than just a deployment.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f deployment.yaml
----

.Verification

> * Verify that the deployment used the specified SCC.

Reviewer 2: Semi-colon before sub-steps, right??

> * Verify that the deployment used the specified SCC:

.. View the value of the pod's `openshift.io/scc` annotation by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get pod <pod_name> -o yaml | grep openshift.io/scc <1>

Reviewer 3: very small nit: `kubectl get pod <pod_name> -o jsonpath='{.metadata.annotations.openshift\.io\/scc}'` (to be verified as I took this from history) is a bit more elegant and more explicit but I'd leave this if other examples to retrieve that annotation use the same syntax.

Reviewer 3: looks great now! 🎉

Reviewer 4: @bergerhoffer We are using JSONPath to filter out the SCC, which makes it easier to check. Looks great now!

----
<1> Replace `<pod_name>` with the name of your deployment pod.

> .. Review the output and verify that the SCC listed is the SCC that you specified in the deployment:

Reviewer 4: Do you think the following revision to the line makes sense?
```suggestion
.. Examine the output and confirm that the SCC displayed matches the SCC you defined in the deployment:
```

Author: Yep that works for me, updated! Let me know how it looks now

+

> .Example output

Reviewer: "displayed" seem to dangle. WOuld swapping it around work better?

Examine the output and confirm that the displayed SCC matches the SCC that you defined in the deployment:

> .Example output

Author: I do almost always put an "Example output" heading with any of my output.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * authentication/managing-security-context-constraints.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="security-context-constraints-requiring_{context}"]
= Configuring a workload to require a specific SCC

You can configure a workload to require a certain security context constraint (SCC). This is useful in scenarios where you want to pin to a specific SCC to the workload or if you want to prevent your required SCC from being preempted by another SCC in the cluster.

To require a specific SCC, set the `openshift.io/required-scc` annotation on your workload. You can set this annotation on any resource that can set a pod manifest template, such as a deployment or daemon set.

The SCC must already exist in the cluster and must be applicable to the workload, otherwise pod admission will fail.

[WARNING]
====
Do not change the `openshift.io/required-scc` annotation in the live pod's manifest; the pod admission will fail.
====

.Prerequisites

> // TODO: Verify that there is no case where you have to be the cluster admin here

Author: @s-urbaniak Just confirming that you don't have to be cluster-admin to do anything related to setting the required SCC. Not even if it's a highly privileged SCC they're trying to use?

Reviewer 3: @bergerhoffer the actual prerequisite is denoted in line 13:
```
The SCC must already exist in the cluster and must be applicable to the workload, otherwise pod admission will fail.
```
Maybe worth putting it here?

Author: Yep good suggestion, can do. Nothing requiring cluster-admin though that we'd need to note?

Author: Actually, I do already list that as a prerequisite below:

```
* The SCC must already exist in the cluster.
```

Reviewer 3: > Nothing requiring cluster-admin though that we'd need to note?

no, the only permission the "user" needs to have is to set annotations on its own deployment manifests.

Having said that, the SCC must be **applicable** to the workload. I describe what applicable means in the original PR https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/62558/files:
```
An SCC is considered applicable if the requesting user creating the pod or the pod's service account
have `use` permissions for the required SCC in the requested pod's namespace.
```

* The SCC must already exist in the cluster.

.Procedure

. Create a YAML file for the deployment and set a required SCC by setting the `openshift.io/required-scc` annotation:
+
.Example `deployment.yaml`
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
spec:
# ...
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        openshift.io/required-scc: "my-scc" <1>
# ...
----
<1> Specify the name of the SCC to require.

. Create the resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f deployment.yaml
----

.Verification

* Verify that the deployment used the specified SCC.

> .. View the value of the pod's `openshift.io/scc` annotation by running the following command:

Author: @s-urbaniak @dpuniaredhat we've been discussing how to verify this in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AUTH-403. I went with checking the annotation, for the reasons I stated in my latest comment. Let me know if that works, or if we need to rethink this.

Reviewer 4: Looks Good to me :+1:
